Links

- [Project homepage](http://openpetra.org)
- [Source code](https://code.launchpad.net/~openpetracore/openpetraorg/trunkhosted)
- [ohloh](http://www.ohloh.net/p/openpetraorg)

## Technical

- C# [.NET, Mono]
- SQL [SQLite, MySQL, PostgreSQL]

## Preliminary evaluation

- [Started in 2009](http://www.ohloh.net/p/openpetraorg)

### Positive

- i18n, l10n
- Supports server-client deployments as well as standalone deployment.
- [Actively developed](http://www.ohloh.net/p/openpetraorg)
- [35 contributors](http://www.ohloh.net/p/openpetraorg)
- [Well-commented source code](http://www.ohloh.net/p/openpetraorg)
- [Extensibility is core](http://www.openpetra.org/organisation-benefits)
- Ledger-specific access control, three access levels.
- using fixed point arithmetic: System.Decimal data type for all money related variables (changed from Double to Decimal in end of 2010: [commit](https://github.com/openpetra/openpetra/commit/a1717237825a6c8f0d5e032c843241ed918e2344))

### Negative

- In BETA state, presently used by at least two organizations, one for accounting, one for contact management.
- [Decreasing Y-O-Y commits](http://www.ohloh.net/p/openpetraorg) <pre>2013-11-13 16:10:00     christiank      joar: I have checked for the source of increased commits in January 2011: It is a mixture of a huge bug-fixing spree and the result of a merge-into-trunk of a Sideline Branch, which then still needed more development</pre>

## Comments

    │15:48:14      christiank [\n]
    | In case you or bkuhn want to read up for yourself what OpenPetra will be  │
    | covering in its Finance Module when it is completed then you can have a   │
    | look at the Petra Finance User Guide                                      │
    | (http://www.openpetra.org/en/user-manuals). OpenPetra is based on Petra   │
    | in terms of functionality.      

## Evaluation

### Evaluation of [[Reporting|UseCases/GeneratingReports]] UseCases
- [[Trial Balance Report|UseCases/GeneratingReports#trial-balance]]: FIXME
- [[Bank Reconciliation Report|UseCases/GeneratingReports#bank-reconcilation]]: FIXME
- [[Chart of Accounts|UseCases/GeneratingReports#chart-of-accounts]]: FIXME
- [[Cash Disbursements Journal|UseCases/GeneratingReports#cash-disbursements]]: FIXME
- [[Income Report|UseCases/GeneratingReports#income-report]]: FIXME
- [[Expense Report|UseCases/GeneratingReports#expense-report]]: FIXME

### Evaluation of [[Reporting|UseCases/GeneratingReports]] UseCases for Fund Accounting

Can each of these reports be generated, confined to a specific temporarily
restricted asset type?
   
- [[Trial Balance Report|UseCases/GeneratingReports#trial-balance]]: FIXME
- [[Bank Reconciliation Report|UseCases/GeneratingReports#bank-reconcilation]]: FIXME
- [[Chart of Accounts|UseCases/GeneratingReports#chart-of-accounts]]: FIXME
- [[Cash Disbursements Journal|UseCases/GeneratingReports#cash-disbursements]]: FIXME
- [[Income Report|UseCases/GeneratingReports#income-report]]: FIXME
- [[Expense Report|UseCases/GeneratingReports#expense-report]]: FIXME

### Evaluation of [[Fund Accounting|UseCases/FundAccounting]] UseCases

- [[Fund-only View|UseCases/FundAccounting#fund-view]]
- [[Funds as part of whole org View|UseCases/FundAccounting#fundless-view]]
- [[Ignore Funds for operations|UseCases/FundAccounting#fundless-view]]

### [[UseCases/Collaborating]] evaluation
- [[Simultaneous Editing of Ledger|UseCases/Collaborating#simultaneous-ledger-edits]]: FIXME
- FIXME: Other uses cases need rewrite.

### Evaluation of [[Double-entry Accounting|UseCases/DoubleEntryAccounting]] UseCases

- Does the system implement pure double-entry accounting?

### Evaluation of [[TrackingDocumentation|UseCases/TrackingDocumentation]] UseCases

- Does the system [[link up to external documentation|UseCases/TrackingDocumentation#document-link-up]]?

- Does it have a [[the ability to explore transactions via documentation linkage|UseCases/TrackingDocumentation#document-link-explore]]?

### Evaluation of [[Handling multiple currencies|UseCases/MultiCurrency]] UseCases

- Does it support the concept of
  [[a single functional currency|UseCases/MultiCurrency]], while still
  permitting multi-currency entries?

### Evaluation of [[draft transaction|UseCases/DraftTransactions]] UseCases

- Does the system allow
  [[generally for draft transactions|UseCases/DraftTransactions#draft-general]]
  that can be later approved before officially being posted to the books? 

### Evaluation of WorkFlow UseCases
- Is a [[specific workflow dictated by the system|UseCases/WorkFlow#workflow-dictated]] ?
- Is a [[the workflow configurable|UseCases/WorkFlow#workflow-configurable]] ?
- [[Unaccrued Invoice|UseCases/WorkFlow#unaccrued-invioice]] ?

### Evaluation of the [[Reading and Reporting API|UseCases/ReadingAPI]]

FIXME: This is assessment of what the API for manipulating the accounting
data does, so I think it's tough to do it as a list of questions.

### Evaluation of the [[Storage API|UseCases/StorageAPI]]

FIXME: This is assessment of what the API for storing the accounting data
does, so I think it's tough to do it as a list of questions.

### Evaluation of the [[Community Health|UseCases/CommunityHealth]]
- Is the [[license both determined as Free Software by FSF and OSI-approved|USeCases/CommunityHealth#license-approved]]?
- Is the [[license GPL-compatible||UseCases/CommunityHealth#gpl-compatible]]?
- Does the project
  [[require assignment of copyright or a CLA to get code upstreamed|UseCases/CommunityHealth#no-cla-for-profit]]?
- How many
  [[active developers/companies contribute to the project||USeCases/CommunityHealth#dev-count]]?
     * If there aren't many, how hard would it be to take over the project if needed?
- Is there good [[developer documentation|UseCases/CommunityHealth#dev-docs]]?
- How easy it to [[engage as a developer with the community|UseCases/CommunityHealth#dev-welcoming]]?


## [[UseCases/FundAccounting]] evaluation

- Supports multiple ledgers

<pre>
2013-11-13 16:09:36     robp    quick reply re: fund accounting (and, to clarify, I'm not a "finance expert" but do have a good understanding of what the finance module in Petra - the percursor to OpenPetra - does)...as Tim points out we need to know from our finance users where Petra falls short of the requirements for fund accounting. Based on my rudimentary understanding of the term, I would think that much of what is needed for fund accounting can be achived with out Cost Centre structu
2013-11-13 16:09:36     robp    re (eg. production of BS and I&E reports on a specific part of the CC structure)
</pre>

## [[UseCases/Collaborating]] evaluation

- Possible to have a central application server with multiple ledgers, access control per ledger
- Multiple users can work on the same or separate ledgers at the same time

## [[UseCases/GeneratingReports]] evaluation

<pre>
2013-11-13 16:25:25     joar    and then about generating reports: http://npoacct.sfconservancy.org/UseCases/GeneratingReports/, ping robp
2013-11-13 16:26:36     TimIngham       Open Petra generates a lot of different types of reports
2013-11-13 16:27:17     TimIngham       At first it may be difficult to see which are the "standard" accounting ones, but I expect they're there.
2013-11-13 16:27:31     TimIngham       And if they're not, it's certainly our intention to add them.
2013-11-13 16:28:22     christiank      The Finance Module of (Open)Petra is very much written so that it is 'auditor-friendly' AND easy to use.
2013-11-13 16:28:48     christiank      - even for not-trained book-keepers.
2013-11-13 16:29:23     christiank      I mean users who aren't trained accountants, but learn accounting in the organisation on-the-job.
2013-11-13 16:31:57     christiank      joar: Not sure if numbers are important, but a quick check revealed that there are at least 32 Reports in the Finance Module of OpenPetra.
2013-11-13 16:34:30     christiank      joar: It has to be mentioned that OpenPetra is developed as a 'global solution' and hence some terms perhaps esp. in the Finance Module might deviate from US-specific terms.
2013-11-13 16:36:25     christiank      A bookkeeper (read: bkuhn in your case) would need to have a close look at what functionatlity in the Finance Module of OpenPetra does what to find those potential differences.

</pre>
